---
layout: default
title:  "User Requirements"
date:   2019-02-19 09:00:00 -0800
categories: phase1
---

## How the software will meet user needs
### Student:
1. Provides mobile or desktop login ability for access, creating new CalendarCompanion accounts.
   
2. Allows student to configure desired degree map/schedule in multiple ways: 
   
   1. The student may chat and provide details (faculty, preferred Graduating Year, number of courses per semester) to a Virtual Assistant which automatically compile a chronological sequence of semesters based on user preferences.
   2. Whether a user is stuck navigating through the application or is having trouble setting up a semester, the Virtual Assistant will be able to resolve any difficulties encountered.
   <p>
3. The student has the option to modify or fine tune the semesters in order to obtain the perfect schedule for each studying term. This can be done through toggling data fields while designing their degree map. Additionally, courses booked online or through exchange will also be recognized by the CalendarCompanion
   
4. The software then displays an intuitive design of each semester through multiple representations. For example, organized directed acyclinc graphs, pie charts for studying and downtime allocation, and maps from class to class based on time of day.
   
5. By saving the desired degree schedule/map, CalendarCompanion will notify the student and remind them before course registration begins, reminding them to sign up for their respective planned term courses.
   
6. CalendarCompanion will be available in multiple languages.

7. If a course is full, the CalendarCompanion may recalculate the degree map, keeping time to graduation as efficient as possible.
   
8. If a course is deemed terminated for a specific degree requirement, the application will notify the user, and again offer a suggested course or ability to chose a course manually.
   
9.  If a user accidentally deletes a course, an undo feature will be available to revert to a precious configuration.
    
10. If a user deletes a pre or co-requisite to another course, a warning will be displayed to the user that the affected courses will not be available should the user continue the action. The option to revert the action will be present.

### Administration (UVIC staff, faculty, professors):
1. Administrative CourseCompanion accounts will be available for user registration.

2. CourseCompanion admin mode will allow the ability to update new courses and lecture sections, or to remove such courses or lecture sections, and to cascade such changes across all current CourseCompanion user account to reflect changes and possible options.

### Parents or Sponsors:
1. Parent mode allows a login to the CourseCompanion usingthe student number of specified child, which allows a parent or sponsor monitor course mappings and transcripts.